In this segment I briefly discuss
how we evaluate parsing results.
So how do we go about evaluating whether
our parsers are doing a good job or not?
One measure would just be to say,
is the parse that we produce exactly the
right parse according to the tree bank?
That's a possible standard, and actually
close to what the probabilistic models do,
but it's rather a tough job to get the
entire structure of the sentence right.
And so the most used evaluation measures
have divided up the pieces of a parse so
you can get partial credit for
being right.
So let's go through how that works.
So the idea is we start with
the gold standard parse tree.
This is the correct
parse of this sentence.
And so then we run our parser, and
our parser is going to choose some parse
tree for the sentence and return it.
So in the example here,
the parser is mostly right.
It's got the noun phrase sales executives.
It's got this verb structure
of were examining and
the noun phrase the figures right.
It's actually made one
little mistake at the end.
So yesterday should be this kind of weird,
kind of temporal noun phrase in English
has where you have bare noun phrases like
yesterday or next week to express a time
that can otherwise be expressed as
a prepositional phrase like
on Sunday in the spring.
But the parser has wrongly just
stuck it on as an extra noun
at the end of the noun phrase great care,
and so that's an error.
So how are we going to
go about measuring that?
Well, the way that we're
going to do it is we're going to
look at individual constituency claims.
So here is a noun phrase, and
we're going to say that it goes from
position 0 to 2 in the sentence, where I'm
putting these fence post marker numbers
in between the words of the sentence.
And so then we look down at our
guessed parse and say, well,
it also has a noun phrase that
goes from 0 to 2 in the sentence.
And so that particular constituency claim
in the gold tree is correctly
captured in the parse tree.
And so they way we do that for all
the cases is we convert the gold tree into
a set of constituency claims where
we leave out the root nodes, so
I've written claims across the root node.
So these are our constituency claims.
So we have a sentence that's
going from 0 to 11, and
then the various other
constituency claims.
Then we do exactly the same thing for
the candidate parse
suggested by the parser.
And so it's also suggested that the whole
thing is a sentence from 0 to 11,
it's also suggested the NP from 0 to 2,
and so on.
So it's got a stead of
constituency claims.
And then what we do is we simply
treat each of these as a unit,
as an atom,
that you either get right or wrong.
And then we use exactly the same precision
recall F measure that you've already seen
several times before.
So here are the gold
standard label bracketings.
Here the candidate label bracketings.
And I've shown in bold the three
that the candidate agrees with
the correct parse on.
And so in total,
there are eight bracketings
in the gold parse and
seven in the proposed parse.
So the label precision is three-sevenths,
42.9%, recall 37.5%,
and the F1 that combines those in
the usual way comes out as 40%.
Now what that partly means is when
before we had this, there were these
extra nodes down here for the parts of
speech that we talked about before.
We don't in the parsing measure of value
evaluate the part of speech taking
even though most parses do part of
speech taking as part of their work.
So that's reported separately,
and in the example I've got here,
the tagging is completely correct,
and so that's 100%.
Something that you might notice here is
that these scores are actually pretty low.
And it's worth thinking a bit
about why they're so low.
And what we find is that even though
the candidate parse was mostly correct,
we actually get a lot of brackets wrong,
so what happened?
The only thing that was wrong in
the candidate parse was that this noun,
yesterday, was wrongly fit
into this noun phrase rather
than being a sentential
modifier as a temporal NP.
But as a consequence of
making that mistake,
the parser is scored as doing
a lot of other things wrong, so
that this verb phrase is
scored as wrong because it's
wrongly extending to cover yesterday,
whereas it shouldn't.
This verb phrase is wrong for
exactly the same reason.
This prepositional phrase is wrong for
same reason, and so is this noun phrase.
So this label precision recall
measure suffers from these cascading
errors whenever you attach something very
low that should be high, or vice versa.
So many people think this is actually not
such a good measure of parser performance.
And people, including me, have argued
instead we should use dependency measures
of parsing performance even for
constituency parsers.
But that just isn't the current practice
of what you see everywhere in research.
The measure that you see is this
labeled precision, labeled recall F1.
And so that's a measure
that we've presented here.
I'll just briefly mention you can
also do an unlabeled version of
these measures where you simply
look at the constituency claim as
a sequence of words without worrying about
the label, but that's much less used.
Okay, so now that we know how to
evaluate PCFGs, how well do they do?
Well, if you just train a PCFG
off the Penn tree bank and
run it on some Penn tree bank test
data and evaluate with this measure,
the answer is you get
about 73% F1 measure.
So that's not terrible.
You get quite a lot of the brackets right.
But remember,
it is counting each bracket separately.
So if you're getting over a quarter of
the brackets wrong, that means that
you're tending to make several bad
attachment errors in every sentence.
So it's not a great result, and we'll
talk about how to improve that very soon.
So let's just summarize, though,
a little bit the properties of
the PCFGs that we've seen up until now.
So the good things about PCFGs
is that they're very robust.
Normally when estimating
a PCFG off a tree bank,
you get the result,
though with smooth probabilities,
that every possible string of
words is included in the grammar.
So there's no categorical grammar
constraint whatsoever anymore.
All the action is in the probabilities,
what's high probability and
low probability.
And that's useful because
the parser is robust.
You can give anything at all and
it'll do its best job to give you
the most likely sentence parse for that.
Another good thing about PCFGs is
that they give us at least part of
a solution to grammar ambiguity.
So like in the example of people
fishing that I showed earlier,
the PCFG tells you which parse for
a sentence to choose, and
at least sometimes it
chooses the correct one.
So it gives some ideas of the plausibility
of a parse, but as we'll see more later,
and you've already got a hint of,
that because of the strong independence
assumptions of PCFG, it's not actually
very good that at doing that.
A third good property is that PCFGs give
us a probabilistic language model so
we say how likely or
unlikely sentences are in a language.
It's important to point out that
you shouldn't just now go and
run off and think, aha,
I've got a grammar.
I'll use a PCFG as a better
language model than the bigrams and
trigrams we saw earlier.
Because actually a PCFG,
as we've shown it so far,
doesn't work as well as a bigram or
trigram as a language model for
tasks like spelling correction or
speech recognition.
And the reason that seems
to be is that PCFGs
lack the lexicalization
of a trigram model.
So what do we mean by that?
Well, what we meant by that is that
if you're looking at this PCFG,
most of the PCFG is of the nature VP
rewrites as VBD, VP,
that rules that are expanding
without any reference to what words
are actually used in the sentence.
In fact,
the only rewrite rules that consider words
are the ones that rewrite from
a preterminal to the word itself.
And so this limits the ability
of a plain PCFG to act as a very
effective language model.
That's a problem we'll
address again very soon.
But for the moment, you now know how to
go about evaluating constituency parsers.